
EXPERIMENT NO : 5
NESTED AND CORRELATED QUERIES

SQL Nested Queries
A nested query (also called a subquery) is a query embedded within another SQL query. The
result of the inner query is used by the outer query to perform additional operations.
Subqueries can be used in various parts of an SQL query such as SELECT, FROM or
WHERE Clauses.
Types of Nested Queries in SQL:
1. Independent Nested Queries (Correlated Nested Queries)
Non-correlated (or Independent) subqueries are executed independently of the outer
query. Their results are passed to the outer query.
Operators Used in Independent Nested Queries
a) IN Operator : it checks if a column value in the outer query's result is present
in the inner query's result. The final result will have rows that satisfy the IN
condition.
b) NOT IN Operator: checks if a column value in the outer query's result is not
present in the inner query's result. The final result will have rows that satisfy
the NOT IN condition.
c) ALL Operator: compares a value of the outer query's result with all the
values of the inner query's result and returns the row if it matches all the
values.
d) ANY Operator: compares a value of the outer query's result with all the
inner query's result values and returns the row if there is a match with any
value.

2. Correlated Nested Queries.
Correlated subqueries are executed once for each row of the outer query. They use
values from the outer query to return results.
Operators Used in Co-related Nested Queries
a) EXISTS Operator: checks whether a subquery returns any row. If it returns at
least one row. EXISTS operator returns true, and the outer query continues to
execute. If the subquery returns no row, the EXISTS operator returns false,
and the outer query stops execution.

b) NOT EXISTS Operator: checks whether a subquery returns no rows. If the
subquery returns no row, the NOT EXISTS operator returns true, and the outer
query continues to execute. If the subquery returns at least one row, the NOT
EXISTS operator returns false, and the outer query stops execution.
c) ANY Operator: compares a value of the outer query's result with one or more
values returned by the inner query. If the comparison is true for any one of the
values returned by the inner query, the row is included in the final result.
d) ALL Operator: compares a value of the outer query's result with all the values
returned by the inner query. Only if the comparison is true for all the values
returned by the inner query, the row is included in the final result.
